Hello and welcome to another tutorial.
We're going to continue our discussion on how to use JNI in combination with a native image.
We saw that we can just quickly set up a simple class that has a static method which is native, say
hi and then we got the header file.
We implemented it in C++, we compile the C++ to a dynamic library and we use system that load to load
that dynamic library using the absolute path.
But now obviously if we run the native image, we're going to fail.
But what we can do is, first of all, that dynamic library has just some binaries, right?
So what we can do, Native Image Compiler allows us to define any file as a resource and then it picks
up all the binaries, zeros and ones and embed them into the final executable file.
So that's what we're going to do.
But because this generate this dynamic library for our JNI calls is some file and operating system,
we have to tell the native image that, hey, we are using some resources outside the JDK, which means
we have to run the JDM that comes with the beam and activate the agent so that it can peaks, it can
pick up on all the resources and generate calls, and it automatically creates this meta in forward
slash native image.
We just have to make sure that wherever we put this directories and all the files that are inside this
directory are on the class path so that the Native Image compiler automatically picks up on these extra
configurations.
Right.
So and we saw these in the past how to correctly do this.
So after the development of the JNI getting a dynamic library, the next step is to make sure that we
run the Java and agent and get these configurations.
And then the other thing is that so far we saw that we just use system that load and use the absolute
path to the file.
When we are compiling to native binaries, we can embed the dynamic library in the form of binaries
in our executable file.
Native image can do that, but then this absolute path to the file is not going to work anymore.
Right?
Systemd load does not support loading binaries as input stream because we saw that in the previous lectures
where we talk about resources and embedding them in the native image in the executable, we saw that
we can always open up a an input, a binary input or input, a stream, a byte, the stream to the resources
that are embedded in the native image.
But then we cannot pass a input as stream directly to the system that load.
Right?
We can't even pass, let's say even a file input, a stream there.
So you have to give it just some file that already exists.
And so how do we do this?
We put the dynamic library on the class path as a resource at compile time and then we do we load this
or we search for this resource at runtime using a platform independent method which reside we use the
class loader and then the class loader is part of the JVM at runtime.
JVM knows what the directories are included in the class path.
So this makes the whole stuff independent of file system of the host that runs our application.
And then we open a binary input stream to dynamically that is embedded in the native image.
Now we have to pull out all those binaries and put them together as a file and the host operating system,
that's the whole point.
Right.
Copy the binaries into an actual file on the file system of the host.
And after we do that and it's very easy to do it in Java, Java already has very nice APIs and after
we copy or pull out all those binaries as a separate file, now we can create a file object and pass
it or give it to this system that load.
And optionally, we can also ask the JVM to delete the copied file when the Java process or the the
application terminates.
Right.
So if you look at here, we we said that the platform independent way of loading a resource at runtime
is to make sure that it's part of our class path.
It's inside a directory that is on the class path.
And then we ask the class loader to get a system resource, or you can ask it to directly search for
the resource and give you an input stream or a byte stream to that.
Right now we're just asking you to get the system resource.
Let's say this is our dynamic library and then we get a URL to it, right?
And then what we're going to do, we're going to ask this URL to open a stream which gives us an input
stream, which we can read all the bytes from that, and then we use the files class, which is a utility
class in Java, and I go and do a copy.
So if we read all the bytes and we get a path, so we decide where to put this copy.
So let's say we want to wherever the native executable file is running the wherever the working directory
is, we want to copy or pull out all those binaries of that dynamic library and put it in the same directory.
With this name, right?
Whatever name.
And after these copies, we know that now we have a file on the file system of the host with whatever
name we decided in the current working director.
So we can create a file object, which is our dynamic library and the system that load.
We get the absolute path to it, right?
Because remember system does load, you have to give it the absolute path to the file.
And then we can also optionally ask the JVM to delete this file that we created by pulling out all the
binaries that were inside our native image.
Normally, we don't want to do that.
I mean, because you can either ask the user at some point when at the beginning of running the application
to decide where to, for example, save these files, let's say most likely we want to put it somewhere
in a directory on the user's home directory, but there's also an option to just delete on exit.
So every time the user runs the application, we pull the binaries out.
We create and copy the dynamic library, load it, and after that it terminates.
Now we see if the Dynamic Library is a very large file, this, this path, this approach is not very
efficient.
So ideally you want to pull the binaries only the very first time that somebody runs the application
and then cache this file.
Right, because this file obviously inside the native image, so its contents are not going to change,
the user is just going to run the application.
So eventually we want to ideally cache this file.
The very first time somebody runs the application, we pull out all the binaries, save it as a file
and then cache it for future use.
Right.
All right.
So this is the entire concept.
And once you get a grasp on how this works, we saw that same story happens for Java resources like
text file, right?
We embed everything as Canada was a very nice class because you could directly give it a input, a stream
so that there is no problem with embedding for the system that load.
We cannot do that.
We cannot give it an input stream.
So you have to pull the binaries out manually, copy them, create a file on the host operating system
and then give it to the system that load.
So let's head to eclipse and try to look at it.
So this was our example and if you recall, we create, we create our C++ project, we compile it,
we got the dynamic library, we put it on the SRC directory, which is on a class path.
So it gets copied into the beam directory as well.
Any file that is inside the Z is a resource that will be copied by Eclipse into the beam directory as
well.
And we saw that in this general demo.
If we run this, everything looks fine.
Yes.
And instead of doing system that load what we're going to do.
Uh, we're going to comment this out and do a platform independent way.
Right.
So what we're going to do, first of all, if I just get this code and compile it to the native executable
file.
Let's say we run our Java trace on this and we get the meta inf.
If you look at it, let's say an icon fee or resource config, we're not getting anything.
So the fact that we're using sys load with an absolute file, the Java agent for VM cannot pick up on
the fact that we are using an external dynamic library as a resource.
Right.
So if I run the in my native image to generate demo and then run the native image.
It's going to pick up on this matter, but there is no information about the resources, so it's not
going to the native image compiler is not going to embed any extra binaries.
Write this file, this dynamic library, it's binary content.
It's not going to be embedded in the in the final executable file.
So let's wait until we get the native files.
The compiler is almost done.
It's enlightening.
And then the final compilation and then the linking so that we get the final executable file.
So almost done.
Yeah.
So if you refresh this and then open up a terminal here.
What we will see is that if I say Java native image the general demo, now it works.
Let's see, that's because.
All right.
So the reason is that obviously it now works only on the host operating system where this file exists.
Right.
So this works only because this file exists, right?
If I delete this, it's not going to work anymore because obviously this path, the absolute path,
has been hardcoded in our executable file.
So if I now run it again, it's going to say that I couldn't find this absolute file.
Right?
User's desktop and this because I deleted this.
So that was not the platform independent way of including these JNI calls this dynamic library into
our native executable file.
Just because if this is directly tied to my like host where I develop this application and therefore
if I give this executable to somebody else, they're going to run into this exception because they're
not going to have that exact directory hierarchy.
Right.
So what we want to do ideally so let me say edit or copy and paste that dynamic library again into our
Z.
To have it.
And again, now that this file is there, the absolute path is valid.
If we run our job application, it's going to work, right?
So this works fine.
But again, what this means is that the application just looks searches for this absolute path and searches
to see if there is a file there.
So this is not a portable application.
It's directly tied to my personal computer for now.
So what are we going to do for this?
What we're going to do, we are going to first of all, let's delete the matter.
If we are going to recreate it and empty this native directory, we're going to do a platform in the
event independent way of loading this resource because we put it this resource which is dynamic library
in our CRC, which is on the class path or basically the bin directory is on the class path, not the
Z, but whatever we put in the Z, the eclipse will copy it also in the bin directory.
So these are in the bin directory and the directory is on the class path.
So we're going to ask the class loader to get sys resource and the name is going to be the name of our
dynamic library.
So it's like a live Java underscore native image, underscore the daily, right?
Remember, this is at the top level of our being directory, so we just give it the name and this returns.
This returns a basically you are l let's call it X, right or resource.
And after that, what we're going to do, we're going to tell it to first of all, we can if you look
at the basically all the methods that this you are l provides get content right or get file so we can
also say system dot load x dot gate file.
This is still works and this returns the absolute path.
So if we run this, this should work fine.
Yes, no problem.
But then again, if we compile to native executable, it's not going to work because when we embed so
this line of code loading using the class loader will embed the binary content of this dynamic library
into our native executable file.
So if we try to run this with our Java agent, Java Trace agent from Google VM and look at the meta
INF resource config.
Now it picks up on this dynamic library because we are searching something on the class path.
So the JVM is aware of we are loading some extra resource.
So the native image picks up on that.
Now that the meta inf has this resource config, if we compile this application with the native image,
the binary contents of this dynamic library will be included.
But then this line, the second line x, the gate file will fail because once the contents are included
in the executable binary, this doesn't reach the absolute path that this returns is not going to be
correct.
So we cannot do this.
What do we do?
We go and try to extract the binary out of it.
So let me just maybe also compile this.
And so we have the method if the resource is configured.
So let's do run compile again and see if it's going to work or not.
So this time again, the binary contents of the dynamic library will be included in the final executable
file.
But the way that we dislike the way we tell it.
Okay.
You are ll get filed is going to fail because once the contents are in the executable file, this target
file will not return a valid path or valid file that is valid on the operating system.
The host operating system.
Right.
So the competition is finished.
Let's refresh this.
Let's open our terminal here and let's run this and now it's going to can't load library and no notice
that that exact gate file says from the root go this and remember this root is actually referring to
the native image the file but to the operating system system that load maps to a file.
Under operating system it means from the root of the host operating system.
So this is not correct, right?
So this doesn't work even though we already have the binary contents.
So we have to pull out that binary content.
So what we're going to say that we're going to say let's say file file is or let's call this Dileep
is new file and we're going to give it exactly this name or whatever name that we wish.
Right.
And we're going to say that we try to see if it's been cached or not.
So let's say we want to cache it in the same working directory that we run our executable file.
So if Dileep dot exists, we're not going to do something.
And if it doesn't exist, we're going to nathi it.
Then we're going to say that files dot copy from the source.
What is our source?
We're going to actually use the copy method that takes the input stream because now that all the binaries
are inside our executable file, we can open up an input stream.
Right?
So the open stream target is the directory.
We have to give it a path.
So Pat's the gate and the directory is going to be I guess the current directory.
And then options.
We're just going to say that there is the default option and then we have to import this also parts
from Java and IO and this is going to throw exception.
So let's round it with try catch.
So if dynamic dynamic library already exists, we're not going to do anything because it's already been
cached if it doesn't exist.
So let's also print some comments if dynamic library doesn't exist, out extracting the JNI Dynamic
Library, right?
And if else, if the dynamic library already exists, we're going to see this out using cached JNI dynamic
library.
And if the file already exists, we're going to just say that system dot load and then die lib get absolute
path.
Right, so we just feed it.
And if it doesn't exist, then we're going to extract the binaries, copy them into.
So we have to tell it.
We also have to give it the name.
So a copy with some name.
We're using the same name.
You don't have to use the same name when when you're extracting the file.
So let's say.
We're going to say that my lib dad, Dileep, I just want to show that this name doesn't have to be
the name of the original file that was embedded in our binary.
So we're just going to rename these.
All right.
Or we can also do, for example, a relative pass here.
That's fine.
So once we copy this, we're going to basically.
That's it.
So we actually can put because after copying, we're also going to load it so we can eventually either
the file doesn't exist.
In that case, we extract the binaries as a file, right?
Or if it exists, we just tell it that the file exists.
We're going to use cache it.
And in both ways we're going to get the absolute path of the dynamic library.
So let's see if this works.
So let's run this.
So extracting the Jrny Dynamic Library Helloworld from C++.
Right.
And you see my lab that delivered what was extracted and this is exactly the binaries that are inside
our right now.
We're running the Java so we haven't compiled yet, but the code is still works because this is a completely
platform independent way.
Even you run it on top of the Java.
We read this original dynamic library copy.
All is content to the working directory.
What is the working directory?
When I run with Java, when I run the Java application inside the eclipse, it automatically sets it
to the root director of the Java project.
So I expect to see a mileage daily file inside exactly.
In the Java project.
So let's run this.
It works fine and my lib lib here and it was already there.
So in the second run it says using the cache Cheney Dynamic Library because we already copied the files
out, copied all the binary apps.
Right, so we can actually so this works fine.
So what we need to do now, we are going to first of all run our Java Trace again so that it knows what's
going on.
So maintain native image resource config and it is still only picks up on this lib java native image
delete, which is correct.
That's where we are actually loading a resource into the java.
The rest is not something that is related to resource loading because we already loaded the resource
and now we're doing something with it, right?
So now if I go ahead and compile my native application, native image, hopefully this time everything
works fine.
We get a executable file that has all the contents of this dynamic library and it's fully portable.
It's not reliant on any host operating system.
Know that this is only portable as long as you're not linking to a specific dynamic library and the
host operating system.
In this simple Helloworld C++ application, I didn't link against any particular dynamic library that
is on my operating system.
It's a very simple thing that only relies on the standard library that comes with C++.
All right, this finished?
Let's refresh.
Let's open up our terminal and hopefully this time everything works fine.
Extracting the general dynamic library and we get the output call from C++.
If we do an LZ, you see that my lib dot di lib is there, right.
If I run the application again, it says using cached JNI dynamic library.
It doesn't do the copying again because it doesn't make sense.
Right.
We want to extract the binaries the very first time, cache it and later on we want to use it again.
Right now, ideally, normally what you see is that usually the applications create a dot directory
or hidden directories inside the home directory of the user and copy these cache files into those directories.
So we could also set it up to do it.
But right now we're just copying or extracting these binaries and cache them in whatever working directory
that the user is running this application from.
And that's that's obviously not ideal because if the user copies this executable to any other directory
and run it, we have to do the caching again, which is not ideal.
So the best approach is always create a hidden directory in the home directory of the user and then
cache the files inside that directory so that whenever the user runs the application from any other
directory, you always refer to that home directory.
So I hope you enjoyed this lecture and now have a very solid understanding of how to extract binaries
from the final executable file and deal with them.
So please stay tuned and I'll see the next one.